Let's see what we get when we
transition with this feedback machine.
So in order to transition,
we could use two types of syntax.
We could first just say
when this event happens and
give it the key of the siblings.
So in this case,
the sibling of question is form.
So we could say when we click DAD,
we go to form.
Thanks is also a sibling, so
when we click good, we go to thanks.
And there's two types of syntax for that.
This is just a shorthand for this.
So instead of saying, just the string, so
we could say on: CLICK_GOOD,
we go to the form.
This is just shorthand for
having target form, where target
is the target sibling state mode.
So just like that.
And so let's actually dive into what
is in the state object that's returned.
We're gonna start with the initial state.
So let's log
the feedbackmachine.initialState and
see what our first state is.
All right, so we have a bunch
of things happening over here.
First, we have the state value,
which is what state we're currently on.
In this case,
we are in the question state.
Which makes sense because that's the first
state that we specified in initial.
We also have a few other things here.
We have events.
This is a special internal event
that says the machine just started.
Any event that you pass in will appear in
the events property of your state object.
For now you don't really
have to worry about any of
the other properties except for
value in events.
All right, so in events, something that
we sent in the machine, can either be
a plain string which represents the events
type or it could be an event object.
If you've come from Redux or NgRx or
ViewX, this might seem
very familiar to you.
An event is an object with a type and
the type represents the type or
name of that event.
So let's go ahead and make an event.
So let's say const clickGoodEvents =, and
we're gonna just give it
a type of CLICK_GOOD.
Okay, so now let's get the next date after
we transition from the initial state.
So that's going to be const nextState
= feedbackmachine.transition.
And the first argument is going to be
the current state which should feel
familiar to you.
So feedbackmachine.initialState because
we're starting from the very beginning,
and we send it that CLICK_GOOD event.
So that's console.log(nextState).
Okay, so we could see that we
have the nextState of form,
which is a bit unexpected, and
this is why it's good to test.
So we see over here it's because on
CLICK_GOOD, we're going to form.
We could change that easily and
say go to thanks.
So now we're in the thanks state.
And we have our events over here.
Now the reason why it's an object
is because we could pass
in different payloads for the events.
And this is going to be important in
future sections when we get to conditional
transitions, or we wants to update
something beyond the finite state,
such as the extended state.
So we could say, type: CLICK_GOOD.
And we could just say time: Date.now.
And so once we do that,
we'll see that the event now has
that extra property over there.
And you could read in that property.